This website uses cookies to ensure you get the best experience on our
website. Learn more

Got it!

City of Linwood, NJ

Atlantic County

Login

By using eCode360 you agree to be legally bound by the Terms of Use. If you do
not agree to the Terms of Use, please do not use eCode360.

Home

Help

Jump to...

Search

Pin open the table of contents

Table of Contents

Open the table of contents

Table of Contents

  * Part I: Administrative Legislation 
  * Ch 1 General Provisions 
  * Ch 7 Claims Approval 
  * Ch 10 Court, Municipal 
  * Ch 14 Defense and Indemnification 
  * Ch 17 Economic Development Committee 
  * Ch 20 Education, Board of 
  * Ch 23 Emergency Management, Office of 
  * Ch 26 Environmental Commission 
  * Ch 30 Fire Department 
  * Ch 41 Land Use Procedures 
  * Ch 43 Length of Service Awards Program 
  * Ch 47 Officers and Employees 
  * Ch 52 Personnel and Personnel Procedures 
  * Ch 52A Employee Manual 
  * Ch 56 Police Department 
  * Ch 59 Public Works Department 
  * Ch 59A Purchasing 
  * Ch 60 Records Management 
  * Ch 61 Recreation, Board of 
  * Ch 66 Salaries 
  * Ch 69 Seal 
  * Ch 71 Shade Tree Commission 
  * Part II: General Legislation 
  * Ch 78 Affordable Housing 
  * Ch 80 Alarm Systems 
  * Ch 83 Alcoholic Beverages 
  * Ch 86 Animals 
  * Ch 94 Bingo and Raffles 
  * Ch 99 Brush, Grass and Weeds 
  * Ch 106 Buildings, Unsafe 
  * Ch 109 Cannabis 
  * Ch 111 Canvassing and Soliciting 
  * Ch 115 Clothing Donation Bins 
  * Ch 119 Construction Codes, Uniform 
  * Ch 122 Curfew 
  * Ch 124 Development Fees 
  * Ch 128 Drug-Free Zones 
  * Ch 132 Energy-Creating Devices 
  * Ch 136 (Reserved) 
  * Ch 140 Fees 
  * Ch 145 Firearms 
  * Ch 149 Fire Limits 
  * Ch 152 Fire Prevention 
  * Ch 155 Flood Damage Prevention 
  * Ch 159 Garage Sales, Yard Sales and Private Sales 
  * Ch 165 Hazardous Materials 
  * Ch 172 Licensed Occupations 
  * Ch 175 Littering 
  * Ch 179 Mercantile Licenses 
  * Ch 183 Nuisances 
  * Ch 187 Obscene Materials 
  * Ch 191 Parental Responsibility 
  * Ch 194 Parking for Handicapped 
  * Ch 197 Parks and Recreation Areas 
  * Ch 200 Peace and Good Order 
  * Ch 203 Portable Toilets 
  * Ch 205 Property Maintenance 
  * Ch 209 Railroads 
  * Ch 212 Rental Property 
  * Ch 216 Satellite Earth Station Antennas 
  * Ch 221 Sewers 
  * Ch 222 (Reserved) 
  * Ch 224 Site Clearing 
  * Ch 226 Short-Term Rentals 
  * Ch 228 Smoking 
  * Ch 232 Soil Removal 
  * Ch 235 Solid Waste 
  * Ch 238 Stormwater Management 
  * Ch 241 Streets and Sidewalks 
  * Ch 244 (Reserved) 
  * Ch 247 Swimming Pools 
  * Ch 251 Taxation 
  * Ch 255 Television and Radio Systems, Damaging of 
  * Ch 257 Towing 
  * Ch 259 Trees 
  * Ch 263 Vehicles and Traffic 
  * Ch 266 Vehicles, Motor-Driven 
  * Ch 269 Vehicles, Unlicensed 
  * Ch 270 Vehicles, Used 
  * Ch 273 Renewable Energy Systems 
  * § 273-1 Title. 
  * § 273-2 Authority. 
  * § 273-3 Purpose. 
  * § 273-4 Definitions. 
  * § 273-5 Standards. 
  * § 273-6 Permit requirements. 
  * § 273-7 Abandonment. 
  * § 273-8 Zoning permit procedure. 
  * § 273-9 Unlawful acts; exemption. 
  * § 273-10 Administration and enforcement. 
  * § 273-11 Violations and penalties. 
  * Ch 277 Zoning 
  * Appendix 
  * Ch A284 (Reserved) 
  * Ch A285 Cable Television Franchise 
  * Derivation Table 
  * Ch DT Derivation Table 
  * Disposition List 
  * Ch DL Disposition List 

Code

New Laws (0)  Index

Print

Email

Download

Share

Get Updates

arrow_back

City of Linwood, NJ  / Part II: General Legislation

Chapter 273  Renewable Energy Systems

arrow_forward

[HISTORY: Adopted by the Common Council of the City of Linwood 10-13-2010 by
Ord. No. 13-2010; amended in its entirety 9-25-2013 by Ord. No. 17-2013.
Subsequent amendments noted where applicable.]

GENERAL REFERENCES

Energy-creating devices — See Ch. 132.

Satellite earth station antennas — See Ch. 216.

Zoning — See Ch. 277.

§ 273-1  Title.

§ 273-2  Authority.

§ 273-3  Purpose.

§ 273-4  Definitions.

§ 273-5  Standards.

§ 273-6  Permit requirements.

§ 273-7  Abandonment.

§ 273-8  Zoning permit procedure.

§ 273-9  Unlawful acts; exemption.

§ 273-10  Administration and enforcement.

§ 273-11  Violations and penalties.

§ 273-1  Title.

This chapter may be referred to as the "Renewable Energy Systems Ordinance."

§ 273-2  Authority.

This chapter is adopted pursuant to the authority of the Common Council of the
City of Linwood.

§ 273-3  Purpose.

It is the purpose of this regulation to promote the safe, effective and
efficient use of small wind, solar, and other renewable energy systems
installed to reduce the on-site consumption of utility-supplied electricity.
In addition, these regulations are designed to consider aesthetics in the use,
placement and design of renewable energy systems.

§ 273-4  Definitions.

As used in this chapter, the following terms shall have the meanings
indicated:

FALL ZONE

The potential fall area for the small wind energy system. It is measured by
using 110% of the total height as the radius around the center point of the
base of the tower.

METEOROLOGICAL TOWER or MET TOWER

A structure designed to support the gathering of wind energy resources data,
and includes the tower, base plate, anchors, guide wires and hardware,
anemometers, wind direction vanes, booms to hold equipment anemometers and
vanes, data logger, instrument wiring, and any telemetry devices that are used
to monitor or transmit wind speed and wind flow characteristics over a period
of time for either instantaneous wind information or to characterize the wind
resources at a given location.

OWNER

The individual or entity that intends to own and operate the renewable energy
system in accordance with this chapter.

RENEWABLE ENERGY SYSTEM

Any structure or installation, such as a small wind energy system, solar-
collecting array, or geothermal system, which is designed and intended to
produce energy from natural forces such as wind, sunlight or geothermal heat.

ROTOR DIAMETER

The cross-sectional dimension of the circle swept by the rotating blades of
the wind powered energy generator.

SHADOW

The outline created on the surrounding area by the sun shining on the small
wind energy system.

SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM

A wind generator and all associated equipment, including the base, blade,
foundation, nacelle, rotor, tower, transformer, vane, wire, inverter,
batteries or other component necessary to fully utilize the wind generator
which is used to generate electricity, that:

A.

Has a nameplate capacity of 100 kilowatts or less;

B.

Has decibel levels that do not exceed 50 decibels (dBA) measured at the
closest property line shared with a buildable lot; and

C.

Is as high as necessary to capture the wind energy resource at 120 feet.

SOLAR ENERGY SYSTEM

An accessory to the main structure and/or use which comprises of a combination
of solar collector(s) and ancillary solar equipment used to generate
electricity primarily for consumption on the property on which the system is
located, or where multiple consumers or exceptional circumstances exist, on an
adjoining property.

TOTAL HEIGHT OF SMALL WIND ENERGY SYSTEM

The vertical distance from the ground to the tip of the wind generator blade
when the tip is at its highest point.

TOWER

A monopole, freestanding, or guyed structure that supports a wind generator.

WIND GENERATOR

The equipment that converts energy from the wind into electricity. This term
includes the rotor, blades and associated mechanical and electrical conversion
components necessary to generate, store and/or transfer energy.

§ 273-5  Standards.

A renewable energy system shall be erected, constructed or permitted only if
it complies with the following requirements:

A.

A renewable energy system shall not be the principal use on the site.

B.

Economic benefit for wind energy systems. The applicant shall demonstrate
through a cost/benefit analysis that the project is economically feasible and
sustainable.

C.

Location; setbacks; height.

(1)

A renewable energy system, except for roof-mounted solar-collecting arrays,
must meet the setback requirements for principal structures for the zoning
district in which the system is located.

[Amended 2-24-2021 by Ord. No. 3-2021]

(2)

Solar energy systems are only permitted on the roof of the principal
structure. The solar panels shall not exceed a height of eight inches from the
rooftop. In no event shall the placement of the solar panels result in a total
height including building and panels than what is permitted in the zoning
district which they are located for the principal building.

[Amended 2-24-2021 by Ord. No. 3-2021]

(3)

In the case of a flat roof, solar panels may extend up to 10 feet above the
roofline (so they can be angled to maximize production), shall not be visible
from the street, and shall comply with the maximum height limit of the zoning
district.

(4)

A wind tower for a small wind energy system shall be set back a distance equal
to the fall zone from:

(a)

Any public right-of-way, unless written permission is granted by the
government entity with jurisdiction over the road right-of-way.

(b)

Any overhead utility lines.

(c)

All property lines.

(d)

All travelways, to include but not limited to driveways, parking lots or
sidewalks.

(e)

The setback shall be measured from the center of the tower's base.

(f)

Guy wires used to support the tower are exempt from the small wind energy
setback requirements.

D.

Renewable energy systems shall be designed to blend into the architecture of
the building to the extent possible. Solar roof shingles and all exterior
plumbing and electrical lines must be painted and/or coated to match the color
of the adjacent walls and/or roofing material. All visible exterior plumbing
and electrical lines must not be installed in any portion of the front of the
property. Aluminum trim, if used and visible, should be anodized or otherwise
color-treated to blend into the surroundings.

E.

Clearing. Clearing of natural vegetation shall be limited to that which is
necessary for the construction, operation and maintenance of the renewable
energy system and as otherwise prescribed by applicable law.

F.

Signs. There shall be no signs that are visible from any public road posted on
a small wind generator system or any associated building, except for the
manufacturer's or installer's identification, appropriate warning signs or
owner identification.

G.

Utility notification and interconnection. The small wind energy system that
connects to the electric utility shall comply with the New Jersey's Net
Metering and Interconnection Standards for Class I Renewable Energy Systems at
N.J.A.C. 14:4-9.

H.

Additional Standards for Wind Turbines:

(1)

Wind turbines may only be attached to freestanding or guy-wired monopole
towers. Lattice towers are explicitly prohibited.

(2)

The tower height shall not exceed 150 feet.

(3)

The applicant shall provide evidence that the proposed tower height does not
exceed the height recommended by the manufacturer of the wind turbine.

(4)

Sound level. The small wind energy system shall not exceed 50 decibels using
the A scale (dBA), as measured at the property line, except during short-term
events such as severe windstorms and utility outages.

(5)

Shadowing/flickers. Small wind energy systems shall be sited in a manner that
does not result in significant shadowing or flicker impacts. The applicant has
the burden of proving that this effect does not have significant adverse
impact on neighboring or adjacent uses either through siting or mitigation.

(6)

All ground-mounted electrical and control equipment shall be labeled and
secured to prevent unauthorized access.

(7)

The tower shall be designed and installed so as not to provide step bolts, a
ladder, or other publicly accessible means of climbing the tower, for a
minimum height of eight feet above the ground.

(8)

Lighting. A small wind energy system shall not be artificially lighted unless
such lighting is required by the Federal Aviation Administration.

(9)

Visual impacts. It is inherent that small wind energy systems may pose some
visual impacts due to the tower height needed to access the wind resources.
The purpose of this section is to reduce the visual impacts without
restricting the owner's access to the wind resources.

(a)

The applicant shall demonstrate that through the project site planning that
the small wind energy system's visual impacts will be minimized for
surrounding neighbors and the community. This may include, but not be limited
to, information regarding site selection, turbine design or appearance,
buffering, and screening of ground-mounted electrical and control equipment.
All electrical conduits shall be underground.

(b)

Appearance, color and finish. The wind generator and the tower shall remain
painted or finished in the color or finish that was originally applied by the
manufacturer's or installer's identification, unless a different color of
finish is approved in the zoning approval.

(10)

Aviation. The small wind energy system shall be built to comply with all
applicable Federal Aviation Administration and state regulations.

(11)

Met tower. A met tower shall be permitted under the same standards, permit
requirements, restoration requirements and permit procedures as a small wind
energy system. Met towers shall be permitted on a temporary basis not to
exceed three years.

§ 273-6  Permit requirements.

A.

Permit. A zoning permit shall be required for the installation of a renewable
energy system.

B.

Documents. The zoning permit application shall be accompanied by a plot plan
prepared by a licensed New Jersey surveyor which includes the following:

(1)

Property lines and physical dimensions of the property;

(2)

Location, dimensions and types of existing structures on the property;

(3)

Location of the proposed renewable energy system and all associated equipment;

(4)

The setback requirements as outlined in this chapter;

(5)

The right-of-way of any public road that is contiguous with the property;

(6)

Any overhead utility lines;

(7)

Renewable energy system specifications, including manufacturer and model, and
the manufacturer's specification sheet in sufficient detail to allow for a
determination that the manner of installation conforms to the National
Electric Code;

(8)

Sound level analysis prepared by the wind turbine manufacturer or qualified
engineer;

(9)

Evidence of compliance or nonapplicability with Federal Aviation
Administration requirements;

(10)

The application shall meet all the requirements of a building permit, include
standard drawings and an engineering analysis, and certification by a
professional mechanical, structural or civil engineer as required by the
Construction Official;

(11)

For a small wind energy system, tower foundation and tower blueprints or
drawings. The foundation shall be signed and sealed by a professional
engineer, registered in the State of New Jersey, certifying that the
foundation complies with all of the standards set forth for safety and
stability in all applicable codes in effect in the State of New Jersey;

(12)

Estimated costs of physically removing the renewable energy system to comply
with surety standards;

(13)

The applicant must post a surety of the approved cost estimate and an escrow
in an amount equal to 5% of the cost estimate for engineering inspections.

C.

Fees. The application for a zoning permit for a renewable energy system must
be accompanied by the fee required.

D.

Expiration. A permit issued pursuant to this chapter shall expire if:

(1)

The renewable energy system is not installed and functioning within 24 months
from the date the permit is issued; or

(2)

The renewable energy system is out of service or otherwise unused for a
continuous twelve-month period.

§ 273-7  Abandonment.

A.

A renewable energy system that is out of service for a continuous twelve-month
period will be deemed abandoned.

B.

The Zoning Officer may issue a notice of abandonment to the owner of a
renewable energy system that is deemed to have been abandoned. The notice
shall be sent return receipt requested.

C.

The owner shall have the right to respond to the notice of abandonment within
30 days from notice receipt date.

D.

If the owner provides information that demonstrates the renewable energy
system has not been abandoned, the Zoning Officer shall withdraw the notice of
abandonment and notify the owner that the notice has been withdrawn.

E.

If the Zoning Officer determines that the renewable energy system has been
abandoned, the owner of the renewable energy system shall remove the system at
the owner's sole expense within three months after the owner receives the
notice of abandonment.

F.

If the owner fails to remove the renewable energy system in the time allowed
under Subsection E above, the Zoning Officer may pursue legal action to have
it removed at the owner's expense, or if the Zoning Officer facilitates the
removal, all costs, fees and interest shall be payable by the owner and shall
be a lien on the property until satisfied.

§ 273-8  Zoning permit procedure.

A.

An owner shall submit an application to the Zoning Officer for a permit for a
renewable energy system.

B.

The Zoning Officer shall issue a permit or deny the application as consistent
with the Municipal Land Use Law.

§ 273-9  Unlawful acts; exemption.

A.

It is unlawful for any person to construct, install, or operate a renewable
energy system that is not in compliance with this chapter.

B.

Renewable energy systems installed prior to the adoption of this chapter are
exempt from the requirements in this chapter, except for the provisions in §
273-7 regarding abandonment.

§ 273-10  Administration and enforcement.

A.

This chapter shall be administered by the Zoning Administrator or other
official as designated.

B.

The Zoning Officer may enter any property for which a permit has been issued
under this chapter to conduct inspections to determine whether the conditions
stated in the permit have been met.

C.

The Zoning Officer may issue orders to abate any violation of this chapter,
may issue a citation for any violations and may refer any violations of this
chapter to legal counsel for enforcement.

§ 273-11  Violations and penalties.

A.

Any person adjudged guilty of a violation of the provisions of this chapter
shall, upon conviction thereof, be punished by a fine not exceeding $1,500 at
the discretion of the Municipal Judge of the City of Linwood.

B.

Nothing in this section shall be construed to prevent the City of Linwood from
requiring abatement and using any other lawful mean to enforce this chapter.

Privacy Policy Desktop View Responsive View Terms of Use Powered by General
Code

